# Capstone-AcuteLiverFailure
 Capstone 2 acute liver failure predictors
Acute Liver Failure is a rare disease in which damage to the liver creates a loss of function. While there are many known diseases that cause ALF, treatment at the current time is limited and often involves transplant.Identifying patient demographic risk factors,may allow for earlier screening and prevention to improve patient outcome. 

The aim of this model is to use this data set to find feature data most correlated with ALF. Modeling this will allow us not only to have a better understanding of risks related to ALF, but will also help predict a patient’s predisposition to ALF when key indicators are considered.

Datasets with target features being a minority in the dataset express difficulty in classification. While the model may have a high accuracy, precision in these cases outweighs accuracy in importance. The goal is to create a model that can predict for acute liver failure based on patient features. The risk of a false positive is minimal compared to the detriment of a false negative.Due to the nature of this dataset, no model was impressive in terms of predicting ALF through the Given features. KNN and Gradient Boosting had the highest precision for ALF, but this is likely due to the lack of ALF targets in those models. The Gaussian model had more ALF Targets, but only a precision of 0.28 for ALF. The Decision Tree and Random Forest models allowed for balancing of class weights and max depth specification. Even with the allowance of ALF targets in the range of the non-ALF quantity, these models failed to give a precise ALF score.

After reviewing these results, it is concluded that the dataset is not comprehensive enough to accurately predict risk factors of ALF. More positive ALF data 
is needed to improve model precision and performance. Future models and methods should focus on balancing within datasets and possibly adding features. 

The application of machine learning in healthcare is becoming more frequent. Teams with a wide volume of patient data and testing should consider machine learning to assist in early detection in order to improve patient outcomes. With this rapidly growing technology, it is important to assess whether a data set and model are actually presenting real-world findings, or if overfitting and tuning are allowing for a connection to be made when there is not one.
